What is Report

A report is meaningful and well summarized information of data from the database. Usually the routine activities are automated and data summarized into a decision-supporting format "Reports". Reports act as wonders when it converts the usual messy data into charming charts, graphs and other graphical representations.

Report template

Generally the following report layout is followed to generate reports by many of the commercial report generating tools.
Report Template

Following is the description of each element mentioned in the diagram.
Element	Description

1.Title:	Title contains the title of the report. It appears only once at the very beginning of the report, for example, "Invoice".

2.Page Header:	Page Header may contain date and time information and/or organization name. This appears at top of each page.
i.e: Date: 17-03-2014   Client : Johnny Nassif    Invoice ID: 2658426

3.Column Header:	Column Header lists the names of those specific fields which you want to display in the report, for example, "Product", "Description", "Qty", "Unit Price" and "Total" etc.
4.Detail:	Detail is the part where entries of the specific fields (listed in Column Header) are shown, for example:
"Pepsi", "1.25 L", "5", "1500", "7500"
"Twix", "extra 25% crunch", "2", "750", "1500".

5.Column Footer:	Column Footer may display summation of any of the fields, for example, "Total Amount: 9000"

6.Page Footer:	Page Footer may contain page count information. It appears at the bottom of each page, for example, "Le Mall - Dbayeh ".

7.Summary:	Summary contains information inferred from "detail" part, for example, After the listing of amount for each product, total amount can be put in visual chart like pie chart, graph, etc for better comparison.

The main purpose of JasperReports is to create page oriented, ready to print documents in a simple and flexible manner. The following flow chart depicts a typical work flow while creating reports.
Jasper Compilation Process

As in the image the life cycle has following distinct phases

    Designing the report In this step we create the JRXML file, which is an XML document that contains the definition of the report layout. We can use any text editor or iReportDesigner to manually create it. If iReportDesigner is used the layout is designed in a visual way, hence real structure of the JRXML can be ignored.

    Compiling the report In this step JRXML is compiled in a binary object called a Jasper file(*.jasper). This compilation is done for performance reasons. Jasper files are what you need to ship with your application in order to run the reports.

    Executing the report(Filling data into the report) In this step data from the application is filled in the compiled report. The class net.sf.jasperreports.engine.JasperFillManager provides necessary functions to fill the data in the reports. A Jasper print file (*.jrprint) is created, which can be used to either print or export the report.

    Exporting the report to desired format In this step we can export the Jasper print file created in the previous step to any format using JasperExportManager. As Jasper provides various forms of exports, hence with the same input we can create multiple representations of the data.

